---
title: Arrays
week: 3
assigned: Whenever
due: Whenever
---

###Workspace Update

* Update your eclipse workspace:

  * Update by right-clicking (control-click on Mac) the main project in the package explorer,
  drag down to `Team...` and click `Update`.
  * You should see a `lab3` package in the `labs` source folder.

<HR>

###Note and Warning:
It is very easy to find a solution to this problem in the Internet. This course does not have as one of its goals making you an expert on finding solutions on the Internet. The goal is to teach you the basic concepts of computer science and programming.

You are not allowed to copy any code for your solution to this problem! The solution takes some 30 lines of code, so we are not asking you to write an air-traffic controller.

However, even these 30 lines may be difficult for you to write at first. So, get help from a TA or the professor, come to office and TA hours, but do this work on your own so that you *learn* the material.

Be assured that you will not do well on the exam if you do not understand this material.

<HR>

###MineSweeper

* This assignment is described in the book, exercise 1.4.30, on page 118. Begin by reading that exercise to make sure you understand the task assigned to you for this lab.  You may find the exercise online [here] (http://introcs.cs.princeton.edu/java/14array/ "Arrays"), as Creative Exercise 30.
* The file you will modify for this assignment is `MineSweeper.java`. It is already in the repository.
* That file already prompts for the number of columns, rows, and the probability of a bomb.

  > Do not change that part of the file. The file is very clear about where you are to insert your code.

* Create the output as prescribed in the book's exercise.  The example given in the book is reproduced below:

    `* * . . .      * * 1 0 0`
    `. . . . .      3 3 2 0 0`
    `. * . . .      1 * 1 0 0`

  > You must use the `*` and `.` characters as shown in the book. Otherwise, the visual version of this game (described below) will not work correctly.
  >
  > Your output must include both the left and right parts of each line as described below.

  You must produce output that matches the form you see above:

  * Each line's **left part** displays the locations of the bombs (denoted by `*`) and the non-bombs (denoted by `.`).
  * Each line's **right part** reports a `*` where there is a bomb and the count of bombs that border that cell where there is *not* a bomb.

  For example:

  * The leftmost entry of the second row has no bomb. In the left part of the second row, a dot is shown. Its corresponding entry in the right part of the second row shows the number `3`, which is the sum of the bombs found on that cell's eight neighbors. Because this cell is left-most in the grid, some of its neighbors do not exist, but they are thus assumed to have no bombs.
  * The mine field's central entry also has no bomb and shows a `2` in the right part of the output. Those two bombs can be found in the upper-left and lower-left cells with respect to that center cell's eight neighbors.

    > The book provides a nice hint about an implementation that eliminates special cases around the edges of the field.

* Run `MineSweeper` as a Java Application and be sure your results look correct before you demo.

  > Test on very small (say, 3x2) mine fields at first. Enlarge the fields and test again, making certain the output is correct.
  >
  > Are you sure your output is correct?
  >
  > Make sure it includes both the left and right parts of each line as described above.

* When your program is complete (or, actualy, even prior to that), you can run a visual version of your game by running `Game` as a Java Application.

  * Our `Game` program runs your `MineSweeper` code, but hijacks the output for its own use.
