---
title: Choice & Iteration
author: Claire Heuckeroth and Ben Stolovitz
week: 2
assigned: Whenever
due: Whenever
---

Review [studio procedures] (http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~jp/cse131/StudioDocs/studioheader.html "Studio Procedures")
before starting.

<HR>

**Feel free to participate in a different group than last time. This is totally
up to you, but try to find a group that makes it easy for you to participate.

Be careful how you use the web.  You are required to develop solutions
as a group by thinking not by finding solutions that have been thought
out by others.  You must be able to explain anything that you have done.**

<HR>

###Warmup

* First, form a group:
  * If you are at a table with a large, wall-mounted screens, a group of 3-4 people is fine.
  * If you are seated at a table without a large screen, a group of 2 people is better.
* All but one member of your group should have this web page open so you can follow along
and see the instructions as you work.
* All members of the group should update their repositories:
  * Open your repository in eclipse
  * Right-click (control-click on a mac) on your repository name
  * Drag down to `Team...`
  * Choose `Update`
  * Supply your WUSTL key and password as necessary
* Plan to have one computer at which your team does its work.
Initially, one of you will be in charge of typing at that computer.
* Throughout the studio, you should trade who is in charge of the keyboard.  Before
doing so, **commit your work** to make sure your work is saved.

<HR>

<CENTER>
  ###**Two problems follow.  First pick the one of greatest interest to your group and try
  to finish that one.  If you have time, then try the other one.**
</CENTER>

<HR>

###Problem 1: Determining the GC content of DNA

[DNA] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA "DNA Wiki") is comprised of two long polymers
(often called strands) of *nucleotides*. Each nucleotide is commonly one of four
possible *bases* denoted by a single character: A, T, C, or G.

An organism's DNA, once determined, is often represented as a string whose characters
that represent a portion of one strand of the DNA.

One property of interest to biologist is the GC content of DNA: what fraction of an organism's DNA are the bases G or C?

In this studio, your team should do the following:

1. With your repository open, create a `GC` class in the `studio2` package

  * Be sure to check the box that generates `public static void main`.  Otherwise you
  will have to type that by hand.

2. Your first task is to generate a random string of DNA, as follows:

  1. Prompt the user to supply an integer that will be the length of the string you will generate.

    > If you don't remember how to do this, look at code from a previous studio or lab.

  2. Use iteration, conditionals, and the random-number generator to generate a random `String` of DNA.

  3. Print that string so we can see it.

3. Run the `CG` program several times. Check the output to make sure it looks reasonable
in terms of the length and contents.

  > You should ensure that your code works properly for *edge cases*.  For example,
  > what happens if the user specifies `0` as the desired length?
  >
  > Also, because you are using the random-number generator, your output
  > should look different among different runs.

4. Now let's compute the CG content of your generated DNA.

  1. Just after you have printed the DNA, write a loop that computes how many Bases
  in the DNA string are `C` or `G`.

    * Case matters. A `G` and a `g` are two different characters.
    Be sure you are looking for the proper case.
    * If you have a `String` s, then the caracter at position i can be gotten by:
    `char r = s.charAt(i);`
    * Note that the first chracter in `s` occurs at location `0`. If `s` has `n` characters,
    then its last character occurs at location `n-1`.
    * To compare r to a character constant, surround that character
    constant with single quotes, as in:

          `if (r == 'G') {
              System.out.println("I saw a G.");
          }`

  2. Print an informative message that shows the fraction or percent of the generated DNA that is `G` or `C`.

  3. Go back and change the probabilities of generating the four specific bases,
  so that you are more likely to generate `G` or `C` than `A` or `T`.

  4. Rerun your program and see if your analysis confirms that the distribution was suitably affected.

<HR>

###Problem 2: Computing [Pi] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi "Pi Wiki") by throwing darts

Computer scientists often use [simulation] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simulation "simulation") as a means of
modeling, understanding, and predicting real-world phenomena.

Your group is auditioning for [survivor] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Survivor_%28TV_series%29)
by proving your group's ability to compute [Pi] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi) using
only the materials at hand, as follows:

* A unit-square dart board (say, 1 meter by 1 meter).  Unit-square
 dart boards are astoundingly resilient in plane crashes,
 and yours is nicely intact.
* Some darts, suitable for throwing at the dart board.
* A string and a stylus, standard safety-kit issue, suitable for
inscribing a unit circle in your unit-square dartboard.
* A dart-throwing expert.  However, since the plane crash, the
expert is left with the (uncanny) ability to throw darts that always land
somewhere, uniformly and randomly, within the unit-square dart board.

  > While the thrower never misses the unit square, the darts
  land sometimes within the inscribed circle, sometimes not.

1. As a group, develop an approach for computing [Pi] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi) based on
the above materials.

2. Implement your approach using iteration. You can start with the following
<a href="Studio/Pi.java">Pi.java</a> file that you can paste into a new
Java class in one of your lab projects.

  * You will need to simulate a random dart thrower. The function `math.random()` will help, as it returns a nonnegative
  double less than 1.0.  You may also find the `Math.sqrt()` function to be helpful.

    > This may be the first new Class you have developed, but eclipse makes it easy:
    > * Right-click on the package name in which you want to define the new class.  In this case, use `studio2`.
    > * Click `New...`
    > * Choose `Class`
    > * Pick the name `Pi` for this class, since the code you will paste is for class `Pi`.
    > **Java style dictates that its classes should begin with a capital letter!**
    > * When the editor opens for your new class, copy and paste the code from
    <a href="Studio/Pi.java">Pi.java</a> into the class.

3. Investigate and discuss how well your
technique computes [Pi] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi "Pi Wiki").

<HR>

###Further investigations


If you have time, pick one or both of the following:

1. Investigate the fairness of the [`math.random()``]
(http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/Math.html#random() "Math.random() docs") method.

  1. What normative criteria should a random number possess?
  2. How can you measure the fairness of a random number generator?
  3. Implement some tests and discuss your results amongst yourselves and
  other groups.

2. There are other ways of [computing Pi] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi "Pi Wiki").
Try some of these and study their effectiveness in terms of the number of iterations you use.

<HR>

##Submitting your work (read carefully):
* If your studio contains a `feedback.txt` file, respond to the questions and supply any requested information.
* You must commit all of your work to your repository.
It's best to do this from the top-most level of your repository, which bears your name and student ID.
* Follow the instructions in the green box below to receive credit for your work.
