---
title: Arrays
week: 3
assigned: Whenever
due: Whenever
---

<HR>

If necessary, review [studio procedures] (.../.../StudioDocs/studioheader.html "Studio Procedures") before starting.

<HR>

###Warmup(s)

* First, form a group:

  * If you are at a table with a large, wall-mounted screens, a group of 3-4 people is fine.
  * If you are seated at a table without a large screen, a group of 2 people is better.

* All but one member of your group should have this web page open so you can follow along and see the instructions as you work.
* All members of the group should update their repositories:

  * Open your repository in eclipse
  * Right-click (control-click on a mac) on your repository name
  * Drag down to `Team..`
  * Choose `Update`
  * Supply your WUSTL key and password as necessary

* Plan to have one computer at which your team does its work. Initially, one of you will be in charge of typing at that computer.
* Throughout the studio, you should trade who is in charge of the keyboard. Before doing so, **commit your work** to make sure your work is saved.

<HR>

###Dice Simulation
In this studio you will simulate the throw of a number of [Dice] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dice "Dice Wiki"). This will require using what you have learned in [Module 2] (.../.../Modules/2/ "Module 2") and [Module 1] (/.../.../Modules/1/ "Module 1") but will also require the use of *arrays* as taught in [this module] (/.../.../Modules/3/ "Module 3").

We ask that you follow these instructions carefully, step-by-step, so as to develop your code by concept refinement. Each concept is first described, and then your group takes steps to implement the concept.
Ask questions as needed to complete one step before going on to the next.

####Procedures

In the steps described below, pictures are shown of dice to illustrate the concepts involved in this studio. You will not really be using or displaying the pictures. Instead, your program will *simulate* throwing dice and you will measure the properties of interest.

1. You need two pieces of information from the user:

  1. **How many dice will be used in this simulation?**

    * For the purposes of this document, let us say that *D* dice are used.
    * As an example, if *D* is 3, then a given throw could be:

        ![Example Throw:] (353.png)

  2. **How many times will the dice be thrown?**

    * For the purposes of this document, let us say that the dice will be thrown `T` times.
    * As an example, if *T* is `5`, then the dice could be thrown as follows:

        **Figure 1:**

        ![Figure 1] (DieGrid.png)

  At this point,

  * Create a class `Dice` in the `studio3` package (which is in the `studios` source folder).
  * Decide on meaningful variable names for the concepts introduced so far:

    * The number of dice used in this simulation.
    * The number of times the dice are thrown.

  * Insert code to obtain the values for these variables from the user.  If you have forgotten how to do this, look at examples from previous studios or look at the code from lecture.
  * Test your code at this point, printing out the values you have received.

2. **Now let's simulate the dice rolls**.  For the purposes of this lab, let's say that each die is six-sided, and therefore labeled to show the values 1…6. If you have time, you might consider how to change your code to accommodate dice that have fewer or more than 6 sides.

  You need to iterate, assigning each die's roll the value that it shows in your simulated roll. Pseudocode for this activity is shown below:

      // Pseudocode
      // for each die d
      //     randomly throw d to obtain the value v, shown face-up on d
      // end  

  1. **How should you represent the value v shown on the die?**

    Talk this over as a group. While it is true that in computer science most sequences start at 0, you should pick a representation that helps you solve the problem at hand.

    **Hint:** You will need to sum the values shown on the dice. You should therefore pick a representation that makes this easy.

  2. **How will you compute (by simulation) the value v for each die d's roll?**

    You have seen this before: use some simple computation based on `Math.random()` to compute a value in your representation of choice for each die's roll.

3. You next need a mechanism for remembering the value of each die as it is thrown.
Consider the example shown in [Figure 1] (/.../.../Modules/3/studio.html#fig1 "Figure 1"). After the first throw, we have:

      ![Example Throw:] (353.png)

  You must provision an array with one slot per die to hold the results of each throw. If `D` is the number of dice, then such an array might fit into your program as follows:

      int[] diceThrown = new int[D]
      // for each die d
      //     randomly throw d to obtain the value v, shown face-up on d
      //     record die d's role in the diceThrown array
      // end
      // At this point, your dieThrown array has an entry that shows each die's value

  > Review the material we have been studying on arrays, and discuss as a group how to deploy the above array to remember each die's value after it has been thrown. Instantiate the array in your code and make sure its size is exactly right for the task at hand.

  For the example abouve, your array might look like:

      ![Example Array] (dieTable.png)

4. Insert code to print the array's values, and run your program several times to make sure the values look reasonable.

5. Around the code you have currently programmed, insert a loop so that your code iterates *T* times.
