---
title: Welcome to CSE131!
week: 6
assigned: ???
due: ???
---

### Studio

======
If necessary, review studio procedures before starting.

#### Warmup

* First, form a group:
   * If you are at a table with a large, wall-mounted screen, a group of 3-4 people is fine.
   * If you are seated at a table without a large screen, a group of 2 people is better.
* All but one member of your group should have this web page open so you can follow along and see the instructions as you work.
* All members of the group should update their repositories:
   * Open your repository in eclipse
   * Right-click (control-click on a mac) on your repository name
   * Drag down to `Team...`
   * Choose `Update`
   * Supply your WUSTL key and password as necessary
* Plan to have one computer at which your team does its work. Initially, one of you will be in charge of typing at that computer.
* Throughout the studio, you should trade who is in charge of the keyboard. Before doing so, **commit your work** to make sure your work is saved.

======

> Note! It is **very important** to the pedagogical goals of this studio that you follow the directions
> below **carefully**.   The object of studio is *not* to arrive at a solution, but rather to understand
> the processes involved in developing solutions.
> 
> For example, at times, you may be asked to sketch a solution using pencil and paper.
> 
> To be blunt, this means you <b>must have pencil and paper out</b>, and you must use said paper and pencil to sketch
> solutions.  These sketches are very helpful both for your own understanding of recursive computations but also
> these sketches help us understand how you think about recursion.

======

#### Overview

In this studio you will learn two styles of developing recursive code:

  * A **recursive specification or formula** may be provided for a computation.  In such cases, the recursive code is often a direct transcription of the formula into Java.
  * Examples or instances of the computation may be provided.  In such cases, you must identify the **recursive structure** of the computation to obtain code.

#### Recursive Formulae

1. For each of the following recursive formulae, write the corresponding code in Java and test your solution
using the provided JUnit test.

> The functions defined below are *partial*, in the sense that they do not work on all inputs.
> Let's assume that inputs to all functions below are restructed to the nonnegative integers (0, 1, 2, &hellip;).
>
> Do not worry about errors that may occur if improper inputs are presented.


  **factorial**
  
  This was done in front of you during lecture.

	 
	 fact(n) =   n x fact(n-1) ;  n>0
	             1             ;  otherwise
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
<TR> <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER> fact(n) = </TD>  <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER><FONT SIZE=12>{</FONT></TD> <TD> n &times; fact(n-1)</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> n &gt; 0</TD></TR>
<TR>                                               <TD>  1</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> otherwise</TD></TR>
</TABLE>
  <DT> Fibonacci
  <DD>
<TABLE>
<TR> <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER> fib(n) = </TD>  <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER><FONT SIZE=12>{</FONT></TD> <TD> fib(n-1) &plus; fib(n-2)</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> n &gt; 1</TD></TR>
<TR>                                               <TD>  n</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> otherwise</TD></TR>
</TABLE>
  <DT> isOdd
  <DD>
<TABLE>
<TR> <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER> isOdd(n) = </TD>  <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER><FONT SIZE=12>{</FONT></TD> <TD> ! isOdd(n-1) </TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> n &gt; 0</TD></TR>
<TR>                                               <TD>  false</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> otherwise</TD></TR>
</TABLE>
  <DT> sum
  <DD>
<TABLE>
<TR> <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER> sum(a,b) = </TD>  <TD ROWSPAN=2 VALIGN=CENTER><FONT SIZE=12>{</FONT></TD> <TD> sum(a+1, b-1) </TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> b &gt; 0</TD></TR>
<TR>                                               <TD>  a</TD> <TD ALIGN=CENTER> otherwise</TD></TR>
</TABLE>
</DL>
* Using the substitution model, show (using pencil an paper) the evaluation of:
   * isOdd(3)
   * sum(100,3)

> At this piont, show your work to a TA before proceeding!


#### Recursive Substructure
Below are some computations you have seen before, but we will now conceive of them recursively.
Using pencil and paper, identify the recursive substructure as shown in lecture. This means circling the
compuation that is *smaller* than the larger one, and identifying by name as a function call.

After identifying the substructure, implement the function recursively in Java and run the unit test.

> Show your recursive structure diagrams to a TA for each problem below before coding it or before proceeding
> to the next problem.

  **factorial**
  
     This was done in front of you during lecture.
      fact(n) = n x (n-1) x (n-2) x ... x 1
      fact(0) = 1
	 
  **sumDownBy2**
  
      sumDownBy2(n) = n + (n-2) + (n-4) + ... 
      sumDownBy2(1) = 1
      sumDownBy2(0) = 0
	 
  **harmonicSum**
  
      harmonicSum(n) = 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + ... + 1/(n-1) + 1/n
      harmonicSum(1) = 1

> NB: The result of this computation should be a `double`.  Be careful about integer divsion!

  **mult**
  
      mult(a,b)= a + a + ... + a + a  (added together **b** times)
      mult(a,0) = 0

======
