
### Studio

======
If necessary, review studio procedures before starting.

#### Warmup

* First, form a group:
   * If you are at a table with a large, wall-mounted screen, a group of 3-4 people is fine.
   * If you are seated at a table without a large screen, a group of 2 people is better.
* All but one member of your group should have this web page open so you can follow along and see the instructions as you work.
* All members of the group should update their repositories:
   * Open your repository in eclipse
   * Right-click (control-click on a mac) on your repository name
   * Drag down to `Team...`
   * Choose `Update`
   * Supply your WUSTL key and password as necessary
* Plan to have one computer at which your team does its work. Initially, one of you will be in charge of typing at that computer.
* Throughout the studio, you should trade who is in charge of the keyboard. Before doing so, **commit your work** to make sure your work is saved.

======

####Guidelines

* This week's studio is an exercise in <I>design</I>, so get your
right brains limbered up for some creative thinking.
  <LI> In design, there are no wrong or right answers.  However, some designs
are better than others for certain purposes.  
It will be important for each person in your
group to be able to defend your team's design.
<BLOCKQUOTE>
If some member does not understand an aspect of your team's design, the
entire team may be docked studio credit.   It is not necessary that
all decisions be made with unanimity, but the issues that influece
the design one way or the other <I>must</i> be understood by all
members of your team.
</BLOCKQUOTE>
  <LI> A rush to implement something fully will be a Bad Idea.  
The group's goal this
week is to arrive at a design, not an implementation.
  <LI> That said, we will be developing <I>stubs</I> in eclipse to
represent the design, with a bit of <I>Javadoc</I> above each class
and method to help generate documentation.
  <LI> As you design, thank about the <B>has-a</B> idea presented in class
and articulate the <B>behaviors</B> you want your object to have.
<BLOCKQUOTE>
The examples from lecture are included in your studio repository
</BLOCKQUOTE> 
<LI>
The design problems are presented to you in the form of a
<a href="http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/userstories.html"> user story</a>.
<LI> Designs must evolve with changes in a system's requirements.  The studio
session will be divided into two segments:
  <OL>
    <LI> (1 hour) You will design some classes whose descriptions are linked
at the bottom of this page.  The result of that work will be a set
of stubs with Javadoc to capture the design.
  <LI> (30 minutes) (Cue the <a href="Studio/elaugh.wav">evil laughther</a>.) You will respond to a last-minute change or update
to the system's specification.
Your team must think about the easiest
way to accommodate the change and write up a description about how your
system is affected.
</OL>
</UL>
<H3> Cautions</H3>
<UL>
  <LI> Use rich data types where possible, both to document your design
       and to leverage Java's type system to avoid bugs in your program.
<p>
        For example, instead of representing a given account using an integer,
        an actual object <KBD>Account</KBD> was defined.  Similarly,
        an integer suffices to hold color information for a pixel, but
        a <KBD>Color</KBD> class (type) was defined to provide reliable
        functionality and to hide details of the implementation
        (encapsulation).
  <LI> Avoid passing parameters of generic type that represent something
       that could have been its own class.  For example, consider
       using <KBD>x</KBD> and <KBD>y</KBD> coordinates to represent
       a point, as shown below:
<PRE>
          public void f(int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2) {...}
</PRE>
It is easy to forget the order in which the integers must be passed
to <KBD>f</KBD>.  To avoid such chaos and to make the program more
readable,
articulate a <KBD>Point</KBD> object that has an
       <KBD>x</KBD> and <KBD>y</KBD> coordinate.  The method then
becomes
<PRE>
       public void f(Point p1, Point p2) {... }
</PRE>

  <LI> Every class should have its <KBD>toString()</KBD> method defined,
       so that the class can return a <KBD>String</KBD> with some
       meaningful information about the class.  
       Generally, <KBD>toString()</KBD>
       methods should avoid invoking the <KBD>toString()</KBD> methods of any
       other class.
  <LI> Instance variables should be defined where necessary, but declared
       <KBD>private</KBD> to guard against accidental access or
       modification outside of the class holding the instance variables.
  <LI> Where necessary, each class should provide methods that get and set
       its local instance variables.  
<BLOCKQUOTE> Recall eclipse can generate those for you automatically.</BLOCKQUOTE>
It is customary to base the name
       of such methods consistently on the name of the associated
       instance variable:
<PRE>
      public Person getPerson() {
         return person;
      }

      public void setPerson(Person person) {
         this.person = person;
      }
</PRE>
</UL>
<HR>
<p>
<H3><a href="Studio/design.html"> Design problems (click here, revealed when studio starts) </a></H3>
