---
title: Module 3
week: 3
---

* This will be a TOC
{:toc}

#Module Overview

{% box 1p1ghnlcx7o6iyg895a0sq3pzw2ppfam %}
			   
#Module Introduction

{% box rzpmje45e2f1cjx8231za8h9d0ruh4nc %}

#Examples of Arrays

{% box hvgqqw3suus8qxm35j7rsmx4p9pe3itg %}

#Array Syntax

{% box 4vrofhdamterzedbwqlr88kv5r2vacmf %}
			   
#Exercise: Mak a copy of an array

##Part 1: Introduction

{% box tv26w6zpxpg4ff2fm5wzzbfeexjyx5ru %}
			   
##Part 2: The exercise

There are two parts to this exercise:

* First you will make a copy of an array.  
* Then you will change your code so that as you copy, you create the 
[Pig Latin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pig_Latin) version of 
each string from the original array.

* Find and open the **CopyArraysAndPigLatin** Java program in the **exercises3** package
  of the **exercises** source folder.
* Write code to make a copy of the provided **names** array.
We do this so that we can
make changes to the copy without affecting the original array.
If we call the copy array **copy**,  then the steps you take
are as follows:

		* Allocate the **copy** array with enough space to hold 
		each of the elements of **name**.

		>Do not use constants here:  pretend that the **names** array could
		>be of any length.

		* Iterate over the **names** array to assign each element of
		**copy** from **names**.

* Check your results by iterating over **copy** and printing
each element.
* Now go back and cause each element of the **copy** array to have
the
[Pig Latin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pig_Latin) version of 
each string in the original **names** array.

##Part 3: The solution

{% box gytnfolrs9d6yt8ihj5kxwtxx4dl7zom %}

#A perfect shuffle (or is it?)

{% box b3abh7gynzhpf6xthml6aeimrufbt07g %}

#Roundtable: Perfect Shuffle

##Part 1

{% box bn6h254yyc4o6dmpvfwq0jpdrfnc4kfr %}

##Part 2

{% box 931v46ug9o1iy73vrhno5ndch77n8row %}

#Roundtable: What does it mean to be random?

{% box wv9w8ev9esdvzv53hiepefzdslyy6mqi %}

#Permuting an array

{% box 1tcqirc37mnn6p2rday2i349ivr7q0zv %}

#Exercise: Permuting an array

##Part 1: Introduction

{% box jqi4vcevpkhjxtzotnc7gc4wz4uw9g9f %}

##Part 2: The Exercise

* Find and open the **Shuffle** Java program in the **exercises3** package
  of the **exercises** source folder.
* It declares an array of strings called **original** that 
contains the strings **A** through **H**, in alphabetical order.
* The goal of this exercise is to shuffle this array, or a copy of it
as you prefer, so at to obtain a randomized order of the strings.
* This is tricky, so try your best but don't feel bad if you need to
see the solution before you have it working completely.

> You can watch just enough of the solution video to get unstuck and then try
> moving forward on your own.

##Part 3: The Solution

{% box 57utrba5mtt33r7i6r3v4wvbgviqtgob %}

#Two-dimensional arrays

{% box h5eiofx4e3ycnor7izfrrrmpv3q6xvw9 %}

#Exercise: Multiplication Table

##Part 1: Introduction

{% box mf0qrx1elwrskz24v6pscag5qu22mayv %}

##Part 2: The exercise

* Long before computers existed as electronic machines, the word
*[computor](http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/computor)* was a name for a human whose job consisted of
computing and tabulating mathematical results.

* In this exercise, you produce a table of products.

###Instructions

* Find and open the **TimesTable** Java program in the **exercises3** package
  of the **exercises** source folder.
* Complete the class so it prints a table of products, as shown
on the introductory video.

> Your columns should line up nicely, assuming that all products take at most
> 2 digits.  In other words, it should look nice when given an input value of 9.
> For greater values, your columns need not line up but the data should be
> correct.


##Part 3: The Solution

{% box v95imbook14djaw63a30ie33jnxcah63 %}

#Roundtable: The birthday problem

##Part 1

{% box km750gikpxekhwik09dakgzn0rw60wu8 %}

##Part 2

{% box myki1oc121poxeqskcdktuio7haxn66l %}

##Part 3

{% box eoc46mgobpg0qjwupssu6izg2ht6rqqt %}

##Part 4

{% box zsydo8flgrw9a2ty4kuay8um8dhsln55 %}

##Part 5

{% box jda2oe7ikeps4j7d9ifoiz3ih3bp49to %}

##Part 6:

{% box rf79j4lzzcit9frvwjmh19fevztrptak %}

#Conclusion

{% box la51487ae0bi2jbr3qiyjh3yg4bx3428 %}